#About the project:

Frontend: Built with ReactJS + Tailwind (for fast, efficient, and responsive component development)

Backend: Built with Node.js + Express + connection to HubSpot (creation of a private app with operations such as PUT, DELETE, PATCH, and GET between the API and the app)

Script: Developed in Python. The script analyzes the data entered by date. It checks when the products were created and identifies potential patterns. Then, it plots a bar chart showing the distribution of products by date (connected to HubSpot).

Database: The API is connected to a local MongoDB database. Data sent from the frontend is received both in HubSpot and MongoDB.

#How to run the project:

Install the requirements for each part of the project (frontend and backend)
cd frontend -> npm install
cd backend -> npm install

Create and activate your virtual environment to run the Python script (the backend must be running at the same time)
cd scripts -> .\.venv\Scripts\activate -> python script_data.py

To run the API:
nodemon start

app.use(cors({
  origin: '<YOUR_FRONTEND_ADDRESS>'
}));
To run the Interface:
npm run dev

To run the script:
python script_data.py

To run tests:
npm test

You can configure your own MongoDB instance to monitor the submitted data. Connect it to the API via Mongoose (already installed).

#The HubSpot integration:

HubSpot is configured according to a developer test account. You must replace the HUBSPOT_API_KEY for authentication. At this point, it’s recommended either to create your own test account and update the URLs (using the same objects) or request team access.

url = 'https://api.hubapi.com/crm/v3/objects/<YOUR_HUBSPOT_PRIVATE_APP>'

const HUBSPOT_API_KEY = process.env.<YOUR_HUBSPOT_API_KEY>;
const hubspotPrivateApp = axios.create({
    baseURL: 'https://api.hubapi.com',
    headers: {
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Authorization': `Bearer ${HUBSPOT_API_KEY}`
    }
});

You can choose whether or not to connect to a local database. With the current HubSpot configuration, the data is already being sent there. However, for security reasons, it is also stored in the local database.

const connectDB = async () => {
    try {
        const connect = await mongoose.connect(process.env.<YOUR_MONGO_URI>) 
        console.log(`MongoDB Connected: ${connect.connection.host}`)
    } catch (error) {
        console.error(`Error to connect: ${error.message}`)
        process.exit(1)
    }
}

#Files generated by data analysis:

-[Arquivo Csv](
[[(https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MjTvefFYfqz88G8pY7xEgOPFkMBRU7Y4/view?usp=drive_link))

-[Arquivo Json]([[./backend/scripts/data.json](https://github.com/LaraOliveira-dev/Fullstack_Hubspot_Project/blob/e941972aded0bc472605b9a273b5bc7371593969/frontbackhubspot/backend/scripts/data.json)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1FFir9BttlBLmBUAFYTMiuCYzxeWQoKZo/view?usp=drive_link))

-[Gráfico de Barras]([[./backend/scripts/creation_dates_histogram.png](https://github.com/LaraOliveira-dev/Fullstack_Hubspot_Project/blob/e941972aded0bc472605b9a273b5bc7371593969/frontbackhubspot/backend/scripts/creation_dates_histogram.png)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1pkHWcnfJ3idXoUnVj4ZfbiPEHQp8rJ9y/view?usp=drive_link))
